K-maps is a logic game developed long ago by teachers at Staten Island
Technical High School. It is a three dimensional spin on Tic-Tac-Toe, but
much harder. Instead of Xs and Os, the players are represented by 1s and
0s in honor of the base 2 number system used in electronics. K-maps
actually stands for Karnaugh maps, which are four-by-four grids used to
simplify boolean algebra problems.

Each game has two four-by-four grids. The game is three-dimensional, and in
the game those two grids are theoretically on top of each other, with the
corresponding squares lining up. Literally imagine taking the first
four-by-four grid and stacking it on top of the other one. Furthermore, each
grid has no real borders: the right-most square in a row is technically
adjacent to the left-most square in the same row, and the same goes for top
and bottom. So in other words, moving off the edge of the grid just lands
you on the other side.

The goal of the game is to get as many quads as possible. A quad is any four
boxes that are adjacent to each other, where each box in the quad must be
adjacent to two other boxes in the quad. For example, a two-by-two square of
boxes is a quad because each box is next to two other boxes. An entire row
or column of boxes is also considered a quad for the same reason (remember
that the two edges of the row or column are really next to each other since
the grids have no borders). Also keep in mind that the game is three-dimensional,
so if two adjacent boxes are on top of another two adjacent boxes in the other
grid, that is also considered a quad. But always remember that each block must
be touching two other blocks at all times.

Then there is the octet. An octect is similar to a quad, except this time each
box must be adjacent to three other boxes in the octect. An easier way to think
about an octet is two quads next to each other (or on top of each other),
because any time two quads are put next to each other an octect is formed. So an
example of an octet would be getting two entire rows of boxes right next to each
other. An octet means an automatic win for whoever gets it, so be careful.

In this electronic version of the game, begin playing by selecting either Player
v. Computer or Player v. Player back on the menu. For each turn, it asks you
where you want to go. Simply type a three digit number as your move, where the
first number is the grid (1 or 2), the second is the row (1, 2, 3, or 4) and the
third is the column (also 1, 2, 3, or 4). Don't worry, the script will catch
invalid moves.
